Update multiple data sources and add TSVB and Vega viz types (#7229)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/visualize/tsvb.md

---
layout: default
title: TSVB
parent: Building data visualizations
nav_order: 45
---

# TSVB

The Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB) is a powerful data visualization tool in OpenSearch Dashboards that allows you to create detailed time-series visualizations. One of its key features is the ability to add annotations or markers at specific time points based on index data. This feature is particularly useful for making connections between multiple indexes and building visualizations that display data over time, such as flight status, delays by type, and more. TSVB currently supports the following visualization types: Area, Line, Metric, Gauge, Markdown, and Data Table.

## Creating TSVB visualizations from multiple data sources
Introduced 2.14
{: .label .label-purple }

Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled. These can be found in `config/opensearch_dasboards.yaml`:

```yaml
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_timeseries.enabled: true
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**Step 1: Connect data sources**

Once you have configured your YAML file, open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

> 1. From the **Home** page, select **Add sample data** and then select the **Add data** button for the **Sample web logs** dataset, as shown in the following GIF.

Reviewer: This step should be last in the list since the data source connection has to be established before installing data (reference https://github.com/opensearch-project/project-website/pull/2837 for updated steps).

2. On the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **TSVB** in the pop-up window.

**Step 3: Specify data sources**

After creating a TSVB visualization, data may appear based on your default index pattern. To change the index pattern or configure additional settings, follow these steps:

1. In the **Create** window, select **Panel options**.
2. Under **Data source**, select the OpenSearch cluster from which to pull data. In this case, choose your newly created data source.
3. Under **Index name**, enter `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.
4. Under **Time field**, select `@timestamp`. This setting specifies the time range for rendering the visualization.

**(Optional) Step 4: Add annotations**

Annotations are markers that can be added to time-series visualizations. Follow these steps to add annotations:

1. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Time Series**.
2. Select the **Annotations** tab and then **Add data source**.
3. In the **Index** name field, specify the appropriate index. In this case, continue using the same index from the previous steps, that is, `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.

> 4. From **Time** field, select **@timestamp**.

Author: ```suggestion
4. From **Time** field, select `@timestamp`.
```

---
layout: default
title: TSVB
parent: Building data visualizations
nav_order: 45
---

# TSVB

The Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB) is a powerful data visualization tool in OpenSearch Dashboards that allows you to create detailed time-series visualizations. One of its key features is the ability to add annotations or markers at specific time points based on index data. This feature is particularly useful for making connections between multiple indexes and building visualizations that display data over time, such as flight status, delays by type, and more. TSVB currently supports the following visualization types: Area, Line, Metric, Gauge, Markdown, and Data Table.

## Creating TSVB visualizations from multiple data sources
Introduced 2.14
{: .label .label-purple }

> Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled. These can be found in `config/opensearch_dasboards.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, ensure that the following configuration settings are enabled in the `config/opensearch_dasboards.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_timeseries.enabled: true
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

Once you have configured [multiple data sources]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/multi-data-sources/) in OpenSearch Dashboards, you can use Vega to query those data sources. The following GIF shows the process of creating TSVB visualizations in OpenSearch Dashboards.

![Process of creating TSVB visualizations in OpenSearch Dashboards]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/configure-tsvb.gif)

**Step 1: Set up and connect data sources**

Open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the main menu on the left.
2. Select **Data sources** and then select the **Create data source** button.

> 3. From the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. On the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL.
```

> 4. From the **Home** page, select **Add sample data** and then select the **Add data** button for the **Sample web logs** dataset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. On the **Home** page, select **Add sample data** and then select the **Add data** button for the **Sample web logs** dataset.
```

> The following GIF shows these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following GIF shows the steps required to set up and connect a data source.
```

![Create data source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/create-datasource.gif)

**Step 2: Create the visualization**

Follow these steps to create the visualization:

1. From the menu on the left, select **Visualize**.

> 2. From the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **TSVB** in the pop-up window.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. On the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **TSVB** in the pop-up window.
```

> 3. Proceed with the steps under Specify data sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Proceed with the steps under Specify data sources.

Reviewer 3: This step doesn't appear to be necessary.

**Step 3: Specify data sources**

> After creating a TSVB visualization, data may appear based on your default index pattern. To change the index pattern or configure additional settings, follow these steps to customize your visualization:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After creating a TSVB visualization, data may appear based on your default index pattern. To change the index pattern or configure additional settings, follow these steps:
```

> 1. From the **Create** window, select **Panel options**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the **Create** window, select **Panel options**.
```

> 2. From **Data source**, select the OpenSearch cluster from which to pull data. In this case, choose your newly created data source.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Under **Data source**, select the OpenSearch cluster from which to pull data. In this case, choose your newly created data source.
```

> 3. From **Index name**, enter `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Under **Index name**, enter `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.
```

4. Under **Time field**, select `@timestamp`. This setting specifies the time range for rendering the visualization.

**(Optional) Step 4: Add annotations**

Annotations are markers that can be added to time-series visualizations. Follow these steps to add annotations:

1. On the upper-left corner of the page, select **Time Series**.
2. Select the **Annotations** tab and then **Add data source**.
3. In the **Index** name field, specify the appropriate index. In this case, continue using the same index from the previous steps, that is, `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.
4. From **Time** field, select `@timestamp`.

> 5. In **Fields**, enter timestamp.

Reviewer 2: Should 'timestamp' be in bold if they enter it as is?

Author: @huyaboo Please provide examples of the information that the user enters in the **Fields** and **Row template** fields. 
<img width="768" alt="Screenshot 2024-06-21 at 2 36 21 PM" src="https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/assets/105296784/388a8ebf-309c-46b6-a77c-3a6273ea29d8">

> 4. From **Time** field, select `@timestamp`.

Author: ```suggestion
4. From **Time** field, select **@timestamp**.
```

> 4. From **Time** field, select **@timestamp**.

Reviewer 3: Is all of the formatting on the last word intentional/correct?

> 4. From **Time** field, select **@timestamp**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. In the **Time** field, select **@timestamp**.
```

> 6. In **Row** template, enter timestamp.

Reviewer 2: same question.

Author: @huyaboo Please see above question re: Fields and Row template. Thank you.

Reviewer: @vagimeli The user will enter in document fields. For this example, they enter in the word "timestamp" for both `Fields` and `Row template` since "timestamp" is a field in the document

> 5. In **Fields**, enter timestamp.

Author: ```suggestion
5. In the **Fields** field, enter timestamp.
```

> 5. In the **Fields** field, enter timestamp.

Author: ```suggestion
5. In the **Fields** field, enter `timestamp`.
```

> 6. In **Row** template, enter timestamp.

Author: ```suggestion
6. In the **Row template** field, enter timestamp.
```

> 6. In the **Row template** field, enter timestamp.

Author: ```suggestion
6. In the **Row template** field, enter `timestamp`.
```
